# pandas-challenge
## Assignment description
In this assignment, you’ll create and manipulate Pandas DataFrames to analyse school and standardised test data.

Background
You are the new Chief Data Scientist for your local government area. In this capacity, you'll be helping the school board and mayor make strategic decisions regarding future school budgets and priorities.
As a first task, you've been asked to analyse the area-wide standardised test results. You'll be given access to every student's maths and reading scores, as well as various information on the schools they attend. Your task is to aggregate the data to showcase obvious trends in school performance.

### Local Government Area (LGA) Summary
Perform the necessary calculations and then create a high-level snapshot of the local government area's key metrics in a DataFrame. Include the following:
-Total number of unique schools
-Total students
-Total budget
-Average maths score
-Average reading score
-% passing maths (the percentage of students who passed maths)
-% passing reading (the percentage of students who passed reading)
-% overall passing (the percentage of students who passed maths AND reading)
-Note: A passing grade is 50 or higher.

### School Summary
Perform the necessary calculations and then create a DataFrame that summarises key metrics about each school. Include the following:
-School name
-School type
-Total students
-Total school budget
-Per student budget
-Average maths score
-Average reading score
-% passing maths (the percentage of students who passed maths)
-% passing reading (the percentage of students who passed reading)
-% overall passing (the percentage of students who passed maths AND reading)
-Highest-Performing Schools (by % Overall Passing)
-Sort the schools by % Overall Passing in descending order and display the top 5 rows.
-Lowest-Performing Schools (by % Overall Passing)
-Sort the schools by % Overall Passing in ascending order and display the top 5 rows.
-Save the results in a DataFrame called "bottom_schools".
-Perform the necessary calculations to create a DataFrame that lists the average maths score for students of each year level (9, 10, 11, 12) at each school.
-Create a DataFrame that lists the average reading score for students of each year level (9, 10, 11, 12) at each school.
-Create a table that breaks down school performance based on average spending ranges (per student).

Use the scores above to create a DataFrame called spending_summary.
Include the following metrics in the table:
Average maths score
Average reading score
% passing maths (the percentage of students who passed maths)
% passing reading (the percentage of students who passed reading)
% overall passing (the percentage of students who passed maths AND reading)
Create a DataFrame called size_summary that breaks down school performance based on school size (small, medium, or large).
Use the per_school_summary DataFrame from the previous step to create a new DataFrame called type_summary.

## Install and use
Data source: UWA analystics bootcamp Software: Data given as two CSV files, run with Python 3 in Jupyter Notebook 6.5.4. The results summary is stored as a Jupyter Source File script.

## References 
Data generated by Mockaroo, LLCLinks to an external site., (2022). Realistic Data Generator. Data for this dataset was generated by edX Boot Camps LLC, and is intended for educational purposes only.

